writing html in vs code

if u do ! tab in html file it will auto complete boiler -plate code for the head and create the body.
create a div do .class#id and replace class with what you want it called (same with id) and it will auto comp0lete in vs coode. 
shift-alt-down arrow to copy a line 

if you want to create a link you would to ul.class_name and replace class name with what you would like it to be called. 

ul is unordered list

ol is ordered list.

li is list item

an html id is referenced as # in CSS

the <i tag means italic but is used sometimes as a placeholder for icons. 

the <a tag stands for anchor and is often used as a link pretty much


justify content and align items:

there is a css flex box.

the main axis is the direction in which the flex items are liad out. while the ceross axis is perpendicular to the main axis. 
the main axis can either be horizontal, (row) or verticle (column)

This then can set items using justify-contenrt and align-items. 
align items is the cross section and justify content is the main axis. 
so if u set flex direction to column, the main axis is the y axis. this means you would use justify content to align it properly.   


if you use the ::before in css. this is essentially a psuedo div or element of some sort that will be placed before the element. 

you can also use ::after to place something after. it is essentially a div.


svg. 

stroke-dasharray is a property to define the dash of an element.

"4" means there is a dash of 4 units long then a gap of 4 units long.

"4 1" means there is a dash of 4 units long, then a dash of 1 unit long

"4 1 2" means there is a dash of 4 units long, then a gap of 1 unit long then a dash of 2 units long then a gap of 4 units long and so on.
"0 4 0" will have a gap of 4 units long then a dash of 4 units and so on .

the units used can depend on your thing. if you have a circle, it is the perimeter, which is 2 pi r, so 9 radi circle is 60 units.
so if u do 30 then 30, it should be even. 

the dash offset is the same thing, the amount of offsets used to shift it BACKWARDS along the path (if you set negative) if you set positive it would 
be forward along the path. if your circle is 60 length, then at -30 it would essentially be flipped by 180 degrees.  



the beauty of viewbox.

viewBox="0 0 24 24"

this tells svg that i am drawing within a 24 by 24 square.

then width set to 120px and height set to 120 px means stretch this virtual square to 120x120 pixels. the internal dimensions can still be considered
within the 24 by 24 square (such as the r as 9.5 radius) 

for this particular code, remember row-search-selected is used to define if a row is selected or not. 


transition: propery css. 

the transition property transition: <property> <time> <method>.
when that property is updated, there is a transition phase.
say you use transition: transform. when an element has the transform tag added, it will start form the initial point.
than transform via the method described, over the period of time. 
